Add Satoshi Nakamoto Institute project page (#630)
OpenSats/website: data/projects/satoshinakamotoinstitute.mdx

---
title: 'Satoshi Nakamoto Institute'
dateAdded: '2024-07-05'
summary: 'A nonprofit archive and publishing project dedicated to preserving Bitcoin history and ideas.'
nym: 'Michael Goldstein'
website: 'https://nakamotoinstitute.org/'
donationLink: 'https://nakamotoinstitute.org/donate/'
coverImage: '/static/images/projects/satoshinakamotoinstitute.svg'
darkCoverImage: '/static/images/projects/satoshinakamotoinstitute-dark.svg'
git: 'https://github.com/NakamotoInstitute/nakamotoinstitute.org'
tags: ['Bitcoin', 'Education', 'Research']
showcase: true
fund: general
announcementLink: '/blog/announcing-the-opensats-education-initiative#satoshi-nakamoto-institute'
---

> The Satoshi Nakamoto Institute preserves and publishes foundational Bitcoin material. It hosts an archive of Satoshi's public writings, a large library of essays and source material, curated collections, podcasts, and original writing that help readers study Bitcoin's history, economics, and technical roots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Satoshi Nakamoto Institute (SNI) preserves and publishes foundational Bitcoin material. It hosts an archive of Satoshi Nakamoto's public writings, for example, emails and forum posts. SNI has a large library of essays and source material, curated collections, podcasts, and original writing that help readers study Bitcoin's history, economics, and technical roots.
```

Author: Thanks.

I still think it should be "an archive of Satoshi's public writings" though.

Author: Agreed, changed back to "Satoshi's" in ec0c4853. Also swapped "for example," for "including" since the sentence reads cleaner that way:

> It hosts an archive of Satoshi's public writings, including emails and forum posts.

> SNI matters because Bitcoin's history needs to be preserved in public. People need primary sources, historical context, and durable references they can return to years later. SNI has become one of the main places people go for that work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bitcoin's history belongs in the public record, preserved with the rigour and permanence that primary sources demand. SNI has become one of the foremost institutions dedicated to building and maintaining that _corpus_.
```

## Why fund it?

> A well-maintained library and publishing effort can help students, writers, researchers, builders, and curious newcomers for years. The more searchable and durable these materials become, the more useful they are to the wider ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Researchers, journalists, serious students, builders, and curious newcomers of Bitcoin need historical context and durable references they can return to years later, not scattered posts that vanish or shift without notice. A well-maintained library is what allows SNI to keep building that record, making it more searchable, more durable, and more useful to the wider ecosystem over time.
```

OpenSats supported SNI through the [OpenSats Education Initiative][education]. That support helps preserve important source material and fund the ongoing work of publishing, maintenance, and archival improvement.

## What's next?

> Recent work has focused on Archive v2, a more durable archival system built around established preservation standards and better ingest workflows. The goal is to make SNI a real digital archive that can handle mailing lists, forums, IRC logs, and other primary-source collections at scale.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Satoshi Nakamoto Institute has long been the closest thing Bitcoin has to a historical library. But its underlying system was built like a website, and not an archive. This means content is loosely organized, and there is no standard way to bring in bulk material like early mailing lists, forum threads, IRC logs, and other primary-source collections at scale. 

Archive v2 rebuilds that foundation using the same preservation standards that govern the Library of Congress and major research libraries worldwide, so that Bitcoin's intellectual history can be brought in and properly catalogued, described, and kept intact at scale.
```
